Wong, L. L. C., & Nunan, D. (2011). The learning styles and strategies of effective language learners. System, 39(2), 144–163. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.system.2011.05.004
 
This paper presents comprehensive knowledge of learning styles and strategies studied so far, as well as their own investigation about the difference in learning strategy preferences, learning styles and patterns of learning use between effective learners and ineffective learners. This is a good paper for our project, which is to create a platform for second language learning, as a starting point because it is important to understand how human learn languages.
According to this paper, there are four major language learning styles that are identified; Communicative, Analytical, Authority-oriented, and Concrete, and among these four, more effective learners tend to have Communicative style. Also, their study revealed that effective learners recognize languages as a tool for communication rather than as a body of content to be memorized, and therefore they are more active and prepared to take control of their own learning. Moreover, they point out that it is crucial for better language learning to pay attention to social practices in the contexts in which individual learners learn the language.
These findings give some important implications for our project. Firstly, it is important for the platform to encourage users to learn by communicating such as speaking, listening, or texting in their aiming languages. Secondly, reminding users of why they are learning and how this learning experience can enhance their future can be a powerful way to keep users’ retention by leading them to be self-motivated for more effective learning. Lastly, it is worth considering setting a specific target user so that the application can be designed and adjusted to their social practices, though it needs to be investigated more in the following papers.
While these findings contribute to our project, however, it must be mentioned that their own findings have little new impact on this domain because most of them are based on the studies that have been already done by other researchers, though it is still valuable in that their study supports the previous findings.
 
 
 
Thompson, G. (1996). Some misconceptions about communicative language teaching. ELT Journal, 50(1), 9–15. https://doi.org/10.1093/elt/50.1.9
 
This paper is focused on communicative language teaching (CLT), which is a language learning model that involves an emphasis on communicating. Although CLT is accepted as the most effective approach, according to Thompson, there are still many misconceptions around it, which are very essential to be cleared out otherwise, it would be used to break CLT as a whole. Therefore, it is important for our project to be aware of these because our application will strongly focus on communicative learning methods.
This paper presents four main misconceptions; The first one is “CLT means not teaching grammar” to which Thompson argues that grammar is still necessary for effective communication, if not simply return to the traditional teaching. It is suggested to let learners exposure to a language in a comprehensible context where they can understand its function and meaning, and then examine the grammatical forms that have been used to convey the meaning. The second misconception is “CLT means teaching only speaking”, to which he discusses CLT involves encouraging learners to take part in and reflect on communication in as many different contexts as possible because communication takes place not only through speech, but also listening and writing, or reading. The third one is “CLT means pair work, which means role play”, by which he points out that pair work should let learners choose what to say, rather than simply work out how to say what they are told to say, because it is important to give them some degree of control over their learning. The last one is “CLT means expecting too much from the teacher”, to which he argues it is not so much if teachers understand the essential value and embrace it.
Among these points, the first three gives our project meaningful hints. Firstly, it is essential to keep in mind that the effective learning order is to firstly have a conversation in a meaningful context, and then reflect it in terms of the grammar used in it. If we are to set some learning function on the application, this helps to determine where to put it. Secondly, it is essential for our application to have multiple communication methods, so learners can experience it from many perspectives. Lastly, allowing learners to choose what they talk is important, so it would be better not to have set situation topics that may restrict their conversation too much.
While these realizations are meaningful, one thing that should be pointed out is that this paper does not provide evidence data to fully convince the argument. It might also be a concern that this paper is published 22 years ago, but regarding the fact that language learning is not something rapidly changes over time and it has been cited by many articles including the recent ones, it can be assumed that this paper is still valid for our project.
 
 
 
WILLINGNESS TO COMMUNICATE, SOCIAL SUPPORT, AND LANGUAGE-LEARNING ORIENTATIONS OF IMMERSION STUDENTS | Studies in Second Language Acquisition | Cambridge Core. (n.d.). Retrieved October 2, 2018, from https://www-cambridge-org.ezproxy.library.uq.edu.au/core/journals/studies-in-second-language-acquisition/article/willingness-to-communicate-social-support-and-languagelearning-orientations-of-immersion-students/B65D3F477CBA246D07BE1048F9B598A6
 
This paper is about willingness to communicate (WTC), in the second language, which has been defined as the intention to initiate communication, in a second language. This paper has been cited by more than 320 papers which represents the impact it has on this domain, and its content is important for our project because understanding what influences on learners’ WTC is essential to keep users involved to our application which focuses on communication.
They present a conceptual model which describes variables influencing WTC. They refer variables to as “layers” of their triangle shaped model. From bottom to top on a triangle shaped model, layer 6 includes “intergroup climate” and “personality”, which are described as a social and individual context that lies as a basis. Layer 5 includes “intergroup attitude”, “social situation”, and “communicative competence”, which are individually based, representing accumulated prior history and broad-based attitudes and motives of an individual. Layer 4 includes” interpersonal motivation”, “intergroup motivation”, and “self-confidence”, which are stable individual differences that apply in several situations. Layer 3 includes “desire to communicate with a specific person” and “state communicative self-confidence”, which are supported by a research suggesting that affiliation may be the most important motive in informal situations with an attractive, second language speaking interlocutor. Layer 2 is “willingness to communicate”, which is defined as “a readiness to enter into discourse at a particular time with a specific person or persons, using a second language”. On top of all these, layer 1 is “Communication Behavior”, which includes such activities as speaking up in class, reading newspapers, watching movies, or using a second language on the job.
While these layers are all important, layer 3, which is directly connected to WTC, particularly gives an implication to our project mostly because it is approachable for an application itself. Based on their study, one of the examples that could be considered for our application is to implement an element where users can find their conversation partners similar to themselves in a variety of ways such as personal interests, age group to enhance their desire to communicate with a specific person.
Although this paper is acknowledged by many other researchers including recent ones, it is worth mentioning that this model was proposed in 1998, from which the whole environment surrounding language learners has changed a lot. For example, there are many more ways to communicate nowadays than it was like in 20 years ago, including messaging via social media, sharing one’s thoughts through the internet, etc. Therefore, it is important to adjust and re-apply their theory to the current environment or circumstances.
Bernal Castañeda, S. (2017). Lifelong learning and limiting factors in second language acquisition for adult students in post-obligatory education. Cogent Psychology, 4(1). https://doi.org/10.1080/23311908.2017.1404699
 
This paper investigates the limitations of adult students learning a foreign language. This is an important background that our project should pay attention to because it is likely to have adult learners as our users and understanding their difficulties or hurdles that stem from their biological and social circumstances is essential for deciding our design direction.
The first limitation they identified is a biological limitation that occurs as they get older, such as decreased memory levels, loss of sensory acuity, and fossilization. The second one is effective limitations that makes them reluctant to learn new languages. They tend to lose their motivation when they find themselves learning slower and having a lower level of skills than their younger counterparts because they feel frustrated and lose self-esteem. The last one is they tend to lose motivation when they are corrected their pronunciation or grammar in a discouraging way by a teacher, also because it weakens their self-esteem or confidence of adults.
These findings can be reflected in our design direction for the application. Firstly, it seems that one-to-one conversation system should work fine in that users will not compare themselves to other learners who are younger than them. Secondly, it is important to encourage or guide users, who are to be “teachers” as a fluent speaker, to be careful about how they correct errors made by their conversation partners.
While their findings are valid and supported by many studies conducted by other researchers, one caveat is that their interviewees are unemployed adult students who study languages to find a new job, which surely affects their emotional state negatively at least to some extent. However, it also implies, as it is mentioned in the article above, that taking the social aspect into considerations is crucial when it comes to how to enhance learners’ experience as a whole.
 
Chen, C.-M., & Lee, T.-H. (2011). Emotion recognition and communication for reducing second-language speaking anxiety in a web-based one-to-one synchronous learning environment. British Journal of Educational Technology, 42(3), 417–440. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-8535.2009.01035.x
 
This study addresses how to reduce anxiety associated with learning a second language to increase learning performance since many studies have indicated various learning emotions strongly affect learning outcomes. In this paper, they propose a web-based one-to-one synchronous learning environment aiming to help teachers reduce the language-learning anxiety of individual learners. Though this system is not directly related to our project, their research results acquired as a part of their investigation with this system are useful for us to identify what makes learners feel anxious.
This study found that the learners’ emotion state varies with a different conversation that learners talk about with teacher. They feel peace when they talk about family or hobbies, while they tend to be nervous when they talk about issues related to examinations, and some teacher’s comments regarding whether they clearly expressed themselves.
Their findings can be applied to our application in that we could provide sample conversation topics for users which are about family or hobbies that are more likely to make them feel ease, though we also need to be aware that we should not provide these topics with too much detail or what to talk about, for the reason mentioned in one of the articles above.
The limitation of this paper relating to our project is its sample size; their participants are only 10 people, and also it was limited to the age group between 22 to 26. It is good in that it reduces the irrelevant factor by restricting the age range, but it certainly needs to have another session with other age groups in order to make sure their findings are applicable to all ages.
 
 
Chin-Hsi Lin, Warschauer, M., & Blake, R. (2016). Language learning through social networks: perceptions and reality. Language, Learning & Technology, 20(1), 124.
 
This paper is focused on language learning social network sites (LLSNSs), which are online communities specifically aimed at encouraging collaboration between language learners and providing opportunities for them to communicate with native speakers. This study contributes our project by providing the comparison between LLSNSs and traditional learning, which tells us both advantage and disadvantage of the platform our project will going to build.
One of the significant traits of learners of the LLSNS is that they adopt useful sentences quickly and have ample opportunities to practice with native speakers, unlike traditional bottom-up learning that starts with alphabets, words, then move onto sentences and grammar. According to their findings, the learners felt more comfortable communicating with native speakers on the site than face to face, because the online environment often allows them to have more time to review their output before sending it to native speakers. On the other hand, this study revealed some limitations of LLSNSs; LLSNSs lack long-term persistence, which means learners often drop out before they achieve their learning goals. Also, they contribute less to learner accuracy compared to traditional learning style, which means sometimes their errors were not found or corrected.
Reflecting their findings on our project, it can be assured that utilizing social network application is ideal given our project is focused on communicative learning style, because it is crucial for learners to feel comfortable communicating with native speakers. Also, it is worth paying attention to the fact LLSNSs lack long-term persistence since it is almost always important for an application to have longer users’ retention.
As for the failure to contribute to learner accuracy, however, it is difficult to directly reflect it as a function to our application because this paper does not cover enough about the cause of the project. While it is still important to be aware of this negative aspect, further investigation is needed on this problem.
 
Stevenson, M. P., & Liu, M. (2010). Learning a Language with Web 2.0: Exploring the Use of Social Networking Features of Foreign Language Learning Websites. CALICO Journal, 27(2), 233–259. Retrieved from https://www.jstor.org/stable/calicojournal.27.2.233
 
This paper presents the results of a survey conducted to gain an understanding of how current users of language learning websites use them for leaning and social purposes. Also, usability testing was conducted to gain an insight into how the goals and designs of these websites corporation Web 2.0 fit with goals and need of current and potential language learners. This study is extremely useful for our project because it goes through common existing language learning websites to test their stabilities as well as it provides users’ overall recognitions related to language learning on online platforms, which are highly related to our application.
Their overall findings are (1) Most users (=language learners) are interested in the social aspects of the websites and the opportunities of learning directly from native speakers. (2) Users also express their concern about the social aspect to be focused too much on the purpose of establishing a social relationship rather than to practice language skills. (3) Users wanted the ability to access lessons, vocabulary, and other types of traditional learning content before attempting to communicate with others because they hesitate to interact with others without preparation. (4) Users want to have easily accessible traditional dictionaries/translation tools within a website. (5) Users express their concern over the quality of user-created content. (6) Users want to interact with native speakers rather than other language learners. (7) Usability that allows users to navigate a website easily is important for them.
All these findings provide us with insights for our project. Firstly, the core concept of our application that directly connects language learners and native speakers is likely to be perceived well since it is something users expect. Secondly, Users feel less confident to interact with native speakers without having help tool with them, or without preparing beforehand. However, it was revealed by other studies that it is better for effective language learning to start with communications rather than to start from vocabulary or grammar, which we can assume users do not know. Therefore, one possible design direction would be to encourage learners to dive into the conversations with little helping tools such as an online dictionary within the conversation page. Thirdly, it is important to have an interface with a clear navigation system, and not to focus too much on the social aspect.
While these implications contribute to our project immensely, it needs to be taken in consideration that this paper was written in 2010, from which social networking system has been evolved greatly, though it is not too old. Therefore, there is a possibility that some of their findings are no longer a common reaction of language learners. In order to grasp the current users’ voice, it is important to have data up to date.
 
 
 
Isbell, D. R. (n.d.). Online informal language learning: Insights from a Korean learning community. Language Learning, 21.
 
This study investigates the practices of a community for online informal Korean learning, /r/Korean, a community hosted within the social link-aggregation website. This paper gives our project a practical view of online informal learning, which allows us to grasp more user-oriented overview.
There have been said by some researchers that online informal learning abundant meaningful second language learning because learners tend to focus too much on pleasure or social aspect rather than language learning itself. However, this study revealed that when the interest of a community is language itself, it seems natural for motivated language learners, particularly those of lower proficiency who are not engaged in formal language instruction, to seek out online communities to answer their questions about linguistic forms. It argues that going on the Internet with a general goal of L2 learning is no guarantee of abundant meaningful L2 input and interaction for a learner.
As a reflection of this study, it can be related to users’ concern about other users focusing too much on social aspects rather than language learning. This research revealed that as long as their interest is to learn a language, it is beneficial for users to gain learning opportunities which can be superior to offline opportunities in some cases. The important implication should be, therefore, the design of the application, especially profile and pair matching pages, need to represent the authentic theme of language learning instead of encouraging learners to socialize too much on the platform.
The limitation of this study is that it has done the observation for a relatively short period of time for a language learning to see the improvements, and also it needs to be done with other communities to be more persuasive that this is not an exceptional case.
 
 
Blake, C. (2009). Potential of Text-Based Internet Chats for Improving Oral Fluency in a Second Language. The Modern Language Journal, 93(2), 227–240. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1540-4781.2009.00858.x
 
This study focuses on the effect of text-based internet chats on oral fluency development in second language acquisition process. They compared a text-based internet chat environment, a face-to-face environment, and a controlled environment in which learners completed online activities but do not interact with either the instructor or other learners. This paper is useful for our project because our application is going to have a text messaging function as the main communication method. Although this decision has been made based on users’ voice, it still needs to have academic background support as a rationale.
Through the study, they found that the learners who participated in the text-based internet chat environment gained significantly higher scores on the phonation time ratio and mean length of run measures than those who participated in the face-to-face and control environments. They argue that text-based internet chat environments can facilitate the automatization of lexical and grammatical knowledge at the formulator level, to build oral fluency.
The result above supports our design direction which is to have texting function as a main with options of video call and voice message because in this way learners can simultaneously improve their fluency level by texting and exposing via video call and voice message.
However, we cannot fully rely on their study without some consideration in mind, because there are other factors that might have been influenced on their results, for example face-to-face group did not have as much opportunity to use English during the class periods as the internet chat group because they were seated around a large table and had to wait to speak until their turn came, while those who were in the internet chat group could do it at the same time. Therefore, while their findings are still valid and useful, it cannot be said that their result is something completely reliable.
 
 
Culbertson, G., Wang, S., Jung, M., & Andersen, E. (2016). Social Situational Language Learning through an Online 3D Game. In Proceedings of the 2016 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems - CHI ’16 (pp. 957–968). Santa Clara, California, USA: ACM Press. https://doi.org/10.1145/2858036.2858514
 
This paper presents work in ”Crystallize”, which is a language learning game that combines traditional learning approaches with a situated learning paradigm by integrating a spaced-repetition system within a language learning the roleplaying game. They address the problem to build a game that promotes social situational language fluency. Although our project is not creating a game, this study gives us some implications because their ultimate goal is same as ours and they try to engage users as long as possible, which our project is seeking a way of.
The challenges they highlight are: (1) how to design and maximize the impact on long-term engagement mechanisms, (2) how to represent real-world situations precisely enough that players feel immersed, and (3) how to use game mechanics and player interactions to enable engagement. Through their investigation, they found that the roleplaying aspect increases not only users’ engagement but also the numbers of words they newly learned in a certain amount of time. Their interview revealed that this is because users can imagine the real-world situation in which they would use the language they are learning.
The finding above, which contributes users’ engagement and learning efficiency, supports our design decision that we provide language learners opportunities to directly communicate with native speakers instead of providing them online learning materials, because it is in real-situation where they can not only learn natural usage of phrases by listening/seeing native speakers’ expressions but also try out their newly learned phrases as practice.
The limitation of this paper is that their target users limited to those who are interested in using online tools and games to improve their language skills. This could have affected their results because if users like games, the chances are they get involved easily no matter how well the content is. Therefore, in order to make sure their findings are applicable for general language learners, broader user testing is needed.



		 	 	 		
			
				
					
Wong, L. L. C., & Nunan, D. (2011). The learning styles and strategies of effective language
					
learners. System, 39(2), 144–163. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.system.2011.05.004
					
The paper conducted a study on identifying the learning styles and strategies employed by those who effectively learning a second language. A comparison study between effective and ineffective learners is done to identify the key differences in the learning approach and methods that could be employed to aid ineffective learners to learn better (L. L. C. Wong & Nunan, 2011).
					
According to the authors, there are four major learning styles which fall under communicative, analytical, authority-oriented and concrete. Through a quantitative study conducted in Hong Kong, the authors were able to pinpoint that communicative is the most common learning style used by those who effectively learn a new language. Communicative style involves watching and listening to people who speak the language and also engaging in conversation with native speakers. Another insight from the study conducted was that ineffective learners tend to follow
				
			
		
		
			
				
					
the authority-oriented style where they expect everything to be taught and explained by a teacher.
Another key insight was that effective learners were highly motivated and are able to reflect on the things they learn. This factor has allowed them to learn a language better and has been consistently found lacking with ineffective learners.
					
Several studies were conducted in the ethnography space to identify any correlation between learning styles and strategies with other factors such as first language background and level of education but failed to find any such relationship. Some of the studies included classroom observations while some others involved adult immigrants who seek to learn a new language. The paper written by Wong and Nunan gives a clear direction of the tools and strategies employed by those who effectively learn a second language. This has been proven and backed by several studies of varying ethnography done over the years and remains undisputable with their results.
					
Hardan, A. A. (2013). Language Learning Strategies: A General Overview. Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences, 106, 1712–1726. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.sbspro.2013.12.194
					
Hardan’s paper discusses language learning strategies in a more academic research perspective. In his study, he includes the research done by those academically renowned in the same space to validate the strategies and insights he highlights (Hardan, 2013).
According to Hardan, every learning opportunity has a strategy employed with it. These strategies are either developed over time with experience or are proven methods of learning. Successful learners of a new language employ several such strategies when compared to that of an unsuccessful learner. The most common strategy employed is communicative which includes cognitive and metacognitive learning strategies. Cognitive refers to learning methods such as clarifying or verifying, guessing, practice, memorization and deductive reasoning. These methods are very commonly used by learners even in the academic sphere.
					
For a majority of the people, effectively learning a second language is very demanding and becomes very important for them to complete. This is especially so in the case of English wherein several countries the society has set a norm of estimating a person’s status by his competency in the language. This puts pressure on the learner but also motivates them. By employing effective learning strategies, they are easily able to learn the language.
Although Hardan has studied the language learning strategies used in various ethnographic cases, his research proves that context is a major player in effectively learning a language. People’s behaviour and circumstance are key factors which influence their method of learning and also how effectively they learn. But the highlighted strategies are proven with several studies done by researchers in the academic space and can be effective when employed in the correct context.
				
			
			 		
		
			
				
					
S. N. Ramlan, A. Abashah, I. H. Abu Samah, I. M. Abd Rashid, & W. N. Wan Muhamad Radzi. (2018). The impact of language barrier and communication style in organizational culture on expatriate’s working performance. Management Science Letters, 8(6), 659–666. https://doi.org/10.5267/j.msl.2018.4.025
					
The paper aims to study and understand how language barrier and difference in styles of communication affect performance in the workplace. The study targets and expatriates working in an organization and the hurdles they have to overcome in an environment where they are unable to communicate effectively (S. N. Ramlan, A. Abashah, I. H. Abu Samah, I. M. Abd Rashid, & W. N. Wan Muhamad Radzi, 2018).
The paper highlights that culture is an important factor when it comes to language and communication. Each culture has its own unique attributes in the regards of communication and the failure to understand and respect these differences can result in embarrassment, broken relationships and degradation of business performance.
Learned behaviour of members of society defines communication styles. With expatriates, they are not exposed enough to these behaviours and hence are victims to miscommunication due to the disparity in the communication styles. Native speakers are often the unwilling perpetrators in this regard as they are unknowingly communicating in their native styles without regard for the miscommunication that could be ongoing with an expatriate.
The paper carries out a survey at an organization level to identify to the extent of the miscommunication occurring with the difference in language and communication styles. While the study was quantitative in nature, it does reveal facts which cannot be denied. The studies were based on the hypothesis that there is a relationship between the working performance of expatriates and language barriers along with the difference in communication styles. While the study raises the issues, it does not have definitive findings on possible solutions to tackle these problems. But it does provide an overview of the extent of the obstacles faced by expatriates which can be used in my research to target specific issues that they face from the studies carried out in the paper.
					
Ammar, A., & Hassan, R. M. (2018). Talking It Through: Collaborative Dialogue and Second Language Learning. Language Learning, 68(1), 46–82. https://doi.org/10.1111/lang.12254
					
The paper discusses second language learning at schools with a collaborative dialogue approach. The study was conducted in a bilingual school where two languages were taught, namely French and English. A learner-centred collaborative learning was proposed under a social development theory which informs that consciousness is the outcome of the social interaction. The process of language learning usually happens in the confines of the learner’s mind but is not invisible. The
				
			
		
		
			
				
					
author states that this learning process is observable through social interactions (Ammar & Hassan, 2018).
Collaborative dialogue is the method being proposed throughout the study. This method simply is about a person speaking to another person about a language problem. This method becomes a never-ending process of using language to make meaning while also reflecting on the learning. While some studies have shown that collaborative dialogue works better with the incorporation of text reconstruction, collaborative writing and grammatical exercises, research is still ongoing focusing on the effectiveness of this method of learning.
					
Researchers studying collaborative dialogue have also concluded that metalanguage is a key part of the language learning process. Teachers of language have always employed metalanguage and the student learning progression has grown significantly with it. The studies also reveal that teachers often have to play the role of a mediator in the language learning process where the learner sometimes falls into the trap of learning incorrectly where they are unable to make out incorrect aspects of the language. The mediation comes into play where a teacher or any third- party element has to be a part of the collaborative learning process.
					
The collaborative dialogue research on language learning clearly dictates that learners effectively learn language through immersion. Immersing themselves in an environment of the language helps by increased rates even for those who are termed as “poor” learners of the language.
					
James, M. A. (2012). An Investigation of Motivation to Transfer Second Language Learning. The Modern Language Journal, 96(1), 51–69. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1540- 4781.2012.01281.x
				
			
			
					
						
							
								
James’s paper discusses the motivation for students who learning languages and their desire to transfer to a different course at university (James, 2012). The focus of the study has been on the English for academic purpose (EAP) course conducted at universities for students who are not eligible to meet the English language requirements of the university. Though the study has been focusing on the EAP course at university, there are several valuable insights which can be of use to my research in second language learning.
								
The paper highlights that motivation plays a critical role in second language learning and has continued to be a primary focus of researchers in a similar space. The whole idea of motivation in language learning has been revolving around context. Context is important in this regard and studies conducted vary with the varying conditions of the participants.
								
Some studies show that language learners are uncomfortable conversing with native speakers. Such learners perceive that they lack competence in the language and hence try to avoid using it at all circumstances. They only motivation that pushes them to use the language is when there is a perceived need or requirement, i.e. only when they are pushed to a point when they have to converse in the language.
								
The studies discussed in the paper also mention that language learners give up on the learning process when they feel that they are going nowhere, and all their learning is going to waste. That is when they lose the motivation to learn and tend to look at alternatives. Lack of resources also is an important factor. Resources here refer to lack of time or own energy to pursue the learning
							
						
					
		
		
			
				
					
						
process. Perceived competence also affects the learner’s ability to continue with the language learning process. Motivation plays different roles and takes different forms as discussed with varying context for the language learners.
					
				
			
			
				
					
Blake, R. J. (n.d.). The Use of Technology for Second Language Distance Learning. The Modern Language Journal, 93(s1), 822–835. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1540- 4781.2009.00975.x
					
Blake discusses how technology can be used for learning a second language through distance learning method (Blake, n.d.). Even though technology has evolved exponentially since the paper was written, the fundamental principles discussed by Blake still remain valid and can be applied to modern methods of language learning.
					
Blake mentioned that teaching languages through technology has become a growing interest and more so through distance learning. It has also become a key component of social computing and has increased focus on user interactivity in the social sphere. The first key insight derived is that technology cannot solve the whole learning process and can only be as good as the curriculum being taught. If the methodology is appropriate, the technology can enforce that to a larger audience making it overwhelmingly convenient for them to learn.
					
The paradigm changed with a giant shift towards multimedia being incorporated in learning. The Internet enables creating large classrooms with the transfer of not just text but also audio and video. Content is provided for learning through two primary methods namely, synchronous and asynchronous. Synchronous makes real-time learning possible with live video and audio conversations while asynchronous brings about the deferred time learning through various online tools such as bulletin boards, blogs, wikis and text-based conversations. Bringing in the possibility of collaborative exchanges in an online classroom environment caused by the successful adoption of technology in the learning circles.
					
Asynchronous learning has encouraged universal participation where learners who are still not confident with their language skills can engage with teachers, native speakers and other learners like themselves in a more equalizing environment.
With the development of technology in this sphere, there was a growing concern for affordances for the new paradigms of interaction. But with the growth of technology today, this concern is eliminated as technology has become mainstream. The language learning concepts with technology discussed by Blake can still be applied to my research to take on a more social and mobile approach.
				
			
			 		
		
			
				
					
Paredes, M., Ortega, M., Sánchez-Villalón, P. P., & Velázquez-Iturbide, J. Á. (2002). A Ubiquitous Computing Environment for Language Learning. In F. Paternò (Ed.), Human Computer Interaction with Mobile Devices (pp. 339–343). Springer Berlin Heidelberg.
					
This paper too talks about how technology can be incorporated into a classroom environment for a more effective learning approach (Paredes, Ortega, Sánchez-Villalón, & Velázquez-Iturbide, 2002). Although technology has grown exponentially since the paper was published, the concepts discussed are still valid arguments and can be applied to research on second language learning through technology.
					
The paper focussed on ubiquitous computing and bring the technology necessary to facilitate better learning in a classroom. Collaborative work in the learning space can be more effective than the traditional learning methods employed at institutions. Ubiquitous computing will be able to support the collaborative and information management tasks required and bring a more accessible technology system for students.
					
The authors discuss that previous attempts at employing technology for learning were not successful due to lack of consideration of context and do not support the collaborative needs of the learning method. A good learning technology should assist and facilitate the learner before and after the actual learning process.
The paper also emphasizes on the teacher playing a key role as a mediator in the language learning process and collaborative exchanges occurring between learners. The mediator or monitoring role is required to keep the learner on track of their progress and assist in clarifications. The technology should also assist in allowing the learner to learn and correct mistakes made when learning.
While computing and technology have already become ubiquitous and widespread especially in classrooms, there is still a gap in the understanding of the interaction paradigms of using such technology with respect to space and place. The discussion in the paper helps to improve my research by given context to ubiquitous computing.
					
Parmaxi, A., Zaphiris, P., & Ioannou, A. (2016). Enacting artifact-based activities for social technologies in language learning using a design-based research approach. Computers in Human Behavior, 63, 556–567. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chb.2016.05.072
					
The paper discusses a new concept which the authors had been working on for three years before publication called design-based research (DBR) (Parmaxi, Zaphiris, & Ioannou, 2016). With the rise of social technologies, the researchers used DBR to study how social technology can be used to enhance the classroom learning experience and more directed towards language learning. The studies were focused on the theory of constructionism where a group of learners collaboratively construct artifacts using social technologies.
					
The constructionism theory which bases off learning, teaching and design of the demands of the population to gain knowledge. Using this theory, participants for the study were encouraged to actively build knowledge through the building of external and internal artifacts without relying on the need to be presented with knowledge by experts.
				
			
		
		
			
				
					
DBR handles the complexity of real-time environment by designing and modifying the learning environment to adapt to the changes. The whole research takes an alternate approach to learning where learners are taken on a journey of self-discovery and constructing their learning pathway with collaborative activities held with other learners.
					
The DBR studies follow iterative cycles where learners are exposed to new paradigms in the environment in increments. The first cycle would give an initial exposure to the learners and when they get accustomed to the paradigms, they are taken to the subsequent cycle. So, the whole process goes in iterations to allow the learner to adapt to growing change in the learning environment.
					
Each cycle has multiple planes such as the cognitive, interpersonal, classroom layer, resource and institutional layer. Each of these layers exposes the learners to the different aspects of the holistic learning experience from their personal mental state, the relationship with those around them and then the organizational structures they live in.
					
The DBR research method for language learning gives deeper insights on how to effectively encourage learning with better results and can be directly applied to second language theories.
					
Wong, L.-H., Sing-Chai, C., & Poh-Aw, G. (2017). Aprendizaje de idiomas «sin costuras»: Aprendizaje de segundas lenguas y redes sociales - Seamless Language Learning: Second Language Learning with Social Media. Revista Comunicar, 25(50), 9–21. https://doi.org/10.3916/C50-2017-01
					
The paper proposes a new framework to apply social media to a contextualized and connected language learning experience in communities (L.-H. Wong, Sing-Chai, & Poh-Aw, 2017). By bringing together various learning techniques and approaches into a comprehensive learning approach through the social sphere can give better results for learners.
					
The learning space discussed comprises of both formal and informal, individual and social, physical and digital spaces. This model facilitates authentic learning experience through social interactions targeting specific languages for communication purposes. The Internet and social media increase the breadth of accessibility for learners and give them new opportunities. Classroom structures are often very traditional and are strict with the way the learning experience is. The authors propose a more open social environment where authenticity, contextualization and socialization are key aspects. Learning artifacts are curated by learners themselves based on the study of the relationship between language use and the world within which the language itself is used. Language learning is strongly bound to context and the authors encourage an environment where learners learn the language based on the context of use.
					
Posting of social media content counts as a learning artifact and interaction with those artifacts encourages cycles of interaction and replies which builds on to the language learning experience. Even though authentic social postings are encouraged as part of the language learning experience, the content needs a mediator to curate and regulate the validity of content. Since social media is an open network of ever-growing content and artifacts, the seamless learning
				
			
		
		
			
				
					
experience requires a more controlled environment for the effective learning of language through social media.
While there has been a huge shift of paradigm towards social media, the proposed framework assists in providing a foundation for incorporating social media into language learning environment.
					
Dogoriti, E., Pange, J., & S. Anderson, G. (2014). The use of social networking and learning management systems in English language teaching in higher education. Campus-Wide Information Systems, 31(4), 254–263. https://doi.org/10.1108/CWIS-11-2013-0062
					
The paper highlights a study conducted to see the efficiency of incorporating Facebook as a social networking tool to assist in language learning (Dogoriti, Pange, & S. Anderson, 2014). The use of social media as compared to the existing learning management systems such as Moodle and found a growing interest with students to choose Facebook over existing LMS systems.
					
While it is true that social media has a growing reach to all ages and especially that of students, there is also a growing concern with academic practitioners on the validity and security of using the platform as an assistive tool for traditional education. This does not stop researchers from studying the effect Facebook could have as a platform to create a sense of community in teaching language and emulate a classroom setting.
					
Studies done with university students in Greece show that students are effective in collaborating with their lecturer on social networking sites and seem to be very keen on using discussion boards on the same platforms. With the use of social sites as a support to the primary LMS systems incorporated, there is a growing active participation seen in students.
					
LMS systems have proven as effective tools for academic scholars and is difficult to convince them otherwise. It will be a huge shift for scholars to learn and get used to a new platform which is quite popular on the social sphere. With them being unwilling to make the shift and with the heavy investment made by institutions on the LMS systems already in place, social media as a learning tool might not see the light of day in near future in traditional academic institutions. But the platform has proven its capabilities and hence can be encouraged for language learning purpose outside the traditional circle of academic learning.



Wong, Lillian L. C., & Nunan, David. (2011). The Learning Styles and Strategies of Effective Language Learners. System: An International Journal of Educational Technology and Applied Linguistics, 39(2), 144-163.
 
The author’s purpose is to study the potential multifariousness in the methods, techniques and models of learning a foreign language which is the English language in this case. The research focuses on the undergraduate's students at Hong Kong University and divides them into more effective and less effective learners’ group. It is stated that both student's group acknowledging and familiar with all the four-language learning method, namely, communicative, analytical, concrete, and authority-oriented. However, "communicative" learning style was found to be more important to the more effective learner's group while less effective learner's group revealed the "authority-oriented" learning style is more useful for them. Moreover, the more effective students were found to have an ability to create their learning plans (self-directed), and on the other hand, less effective students require guidance in their learning tactics. Therefore, while the study is beneficial for an analysis of learning language strategies for a different level of language skill, the limitation of dividing the "Effective" and "ineffective" learners from their scores on a graded language ability test might raise an issue. This classification method needs to be discussed and reviewed in the paper whether this test can be applied as a foundation for dividing students' language skills group. Besides, even though this study was issued in 2011, much of the literature was referred to the 90s paper. After reading in detail, the four language learning styles that are used as reference material and dividing method of the learners are the old classifications introduced by Willing in 1994. Moreover, in his paper, Willing introduced the four language learning styles for his research on the adult migrant education which is not the same as the context of the undergraduate students that studied in this paper.  	
 
Du, Fengning. (2013). Student Perspectives of Self-Directed Language Learning: Implications for Teaching and Research. International Journal for the Scholarship of Teaching and Learning, 7(2), International Journal for the Scholarship of Teaching and Learning, 2013, Vol.7(2).
        	
In this article, Fengning reviews the perspectives of the numerous students in the foreign language on self-directed learning style at a community college and the status of lecturers on this learning method. The research discovers that an independent learning style help student to developed in three different aspects of learning ammo. Firstly, the improvement of the awareness of the language domain such as knowledge in the linguistic features and the extending of vocabulary remembrance. Secondly is the "meta-cognitive skills". The students who familiar with self-directed learning style has the competence to manage the task's priority, find the support material, reading with strategy, and doing self-assessment. Lastly, it increased the student' motivation in learning and enhance the individual achievement feeling. The author provides a robust theoretical and research finding on the benefit of self-directed language learning style for the students. This article is useful as a foundation for choosing self-directed learning style as the best-recommended learning style for students who want to learn a foreign language from both students and teacher perspective. Moreover, the theory and method that used to examine the language learning style are coming from a reliable source. It published by Oxford and Cambridge press which are the leading professional in the English language learning context. However, it is mention that researchers here work as double agents. He is a researcher and teacher for the students that examined. The possibility of being bias in the research might happen. It also mentioned that this dual role makes the researcher feels busy and does not provide much feedback for the students' improvement in their learning style.
        	
Oxford, Rebecca L., Rubin, Joan, Chamot, Anna Uhl, Schramm, Karen, Lavine, Roberta, Gunning, Pamela, & Nel, Carisma. (2014). The Learning Strategy Prism: Perspectives of Learning Strategy Experts. System: An International Journal of Educational Technology and Applied Linguistics, 43(1), 30-49.
 
This paper examines six excellent essays that designed by six different experts in language learning strategy, namely, Rubin, Chamot, Schramm, Lavine, Gunning, and Nel representative from three continents and four different countries. Overall, from a historical and psychological point of view, Joan Rubin shows the involvement in developments of language learning strategy, especially for self-management while Anna Chamot investigates the possible circumstance that happens in strategy instruction. On the other hand, Karen Schramm researching on the language learning strategy from the mental actions’ perspective with the detail of dynamic giftedness narration. While Roberta Lavine focuses on the "meta script strategy", Pamela Gunning and Carisma Nel explore the learning strategy with young teenagers and professional involvement in the quality of strategy respectively. With the variety of theoretical methods that are supported by well-known researchers in this field, tons of powerful learning language strategy have offered to support students in the development of their learning styles such as guidebooks, textbooks, direction, materials, video disc, and website strategy for the extraordinary issue. Moreover, all the strategies that suggested were already tested and proved by the experts. However, the strategies that advised are too broad and may be challenging to implement on students. Each strategy that outlined by each expert is a language learning strategy that is applied not only to students but the broad society including professional workers. Information from this paper may be beneficial to explore more deeply about the language learning strategy from expert’s perspective, but the selection of suitable and appropriate strategies for students must be sorted out from the others. There is one impressive thing mentioned here is the use of the website as a student learning buddy. This suggestion might be a good beginning to explore more profoundly about self-directed language learning strategy hand in hand with technology which in this case is a learning website.
 
Cheng, & Lee. (2018). Factors affecting tertiary English learners’ persistence in the self-directed language learning journey. System, 76, 170-182.
        	
The article investigates the determinant factor that influences undergraduate students' persistence and achievement of a self-directed language learning scheme at a Hong Kong University. The research exposed that persistent and attrition rate is the main problems of the demotivation in independent language learning. It states that every student has unique problems that cause the up and down of their motivation of learning a language. With the broad availability of learning materials and facilities, Self-directed Language Learning Style designs to develop the language proficiency of the students by encouraging them to maximize the use of existing facilities independently. However, the research found that online mechanism aid such as online materials with the reward system that granted by the universities is less efficient compared to the academic and peer assistance. The busy schedule and tight specifications of the course are the main factors to be blamed of this online support less efficiency. This paper helped to list out the main obstacle of self-directed language learning style for students. Direct research that conducted on undergraduate students makes this paper relevant to the research I investigate and the publishing date that only few months ago make this paper fresher to use. Moreover, a strong analysis of quantitative and qualitative data based on the student attendance through the whole semester make it more reliable to cite. Therefore, while the findings from this research provide comprehensive knowledge of the changing mood factor in self-directed language learning scheme, the small size of the sample that taking part in the research cannot be used to reflect the entire linguistic students on time.
 
Jing Wu. (2014). Effects of Learning Styles on Self-directed Foreign Language Vocabulary Learning. Studies in Self-Access Learning Journal, 5(2), 112-126.
 
This research investigates the heterogeneity of vocabulary learning strategies combining with the assistance of learning system for a different kind of learning style by classifying the learning task of variety vocabulary. In this research, a computer-assisted language learning was introduced to help students in learning the vocabulary of the English language. Then, an empirical study was carried with this self-directed learning system to discover any essential differences between the students who use the system with specific learning path and others that were taking the system randomly without following the leaning path. After two and a half months, it states that both students group performance has shown no notable difference in the result. This paper is an excellent source to know about the computer-assisted language learning and the effectiveness of the system to improve the student's study practices with self-directed language learning. The focus of this research paper is only on learning the vocabulary in English which is not entirely relevant to the system that my team try to build to learn the general aspect of foreign languages including speaking, reading, writing and others. However, the application of computer-based systems in supporting independent learning style is the thing that my group try to develop. Moreover, this paper reports the results of implementing the computer-assisted system to students strongly with consistent monitoring and documenting students' development after using the system. This paper gives a based knowledge of computer-assisted language learning and assisting in deciding the learning track that is provided by my system to guide the users in learning the foreign language.                	
 
Lai, Chun, Shum, Mark, & Tian, Yan. (2016). Enhancing Learners' Self-Directed Use of Technology for Language Learning: The Effectiveness of an Online Training Platform. Computer Assisted Language Learning, 29(1), 40-60.
        	
This research studied the enthusiasm and commitment of self-directed language learning style using the technology support effectively which is an online exercise platform in this case. Based on this paper, it states that self-directed learning style is a learning method of a person that is initiating, diagnosing, planning, identifying, implementing and evaluating their learning schedule personally or with the help of another person. Concerning the study behavior, this research discovered that the online learning application was completely successful in supporting and maintaining a greater self-directed language learning rate, study enthusiasm, and build a solid base of knowledge and English skill set. The authors also mention that before forming a powerful self-directed education program, it is good to consider Hubbard’s three aspects of training structure, namely, pedagogical, strategic, and technical. This article is pretty helpful in presenting essential knowledge about the popular trends in developing online learning methods to support an independent learning style. By assessing various development techniques in supporting self-directed learning style, this research provides suggestions framework for making the most efficient teaching syllabus to assist students' development with self-directed learning styles which will be very useful for me in choosing and developing learning materials in the application that I will build. However, the limitation of this research was found in the self-directed language learning styles that only focus on individual performance, while the App that I try to build requires an external tutor as a companion in the learning process. More in-depth research is needed to find out about the influence of instructors in this self-directed learning technique.
 

 
Lai, Chun, Li, Xiaoshi, & Wang, Qiu. (2017). Students' Perceptions of Teacher Impact on Their Self-Directed Language Learning with Technology beyond the Classroom: Cases of Hong Kong and U.S. Educational Technology Research and Development, 65(4), 1105-1133.
 
This research based on the two different cultural settings (Hong Kong and the US) of an undergraduate student to investigate the influence of teacher behaviors on the students' intentions to use technologies for their language studying support. On this paper, the authors mention the expert opinions about the developing and sustaining of Self-directed learning style is crucial to the development of the study habit of the human. It also points out that technology plays a fundamental part in empowering and supporting independent learning practices. Moreover, the increase of students' verbal skill, vocabulary capacity, reading speed and listening capability has been proved by implementing technology support outside the formal study time. Through the point of view of the teacher's influence in motivating students to learn independently outside the classroom, practical support, capability support and behavior support from teachers have a considerable impact on encouraging students to use technology in their self-directed learning style. It also argues that the development of the teacher' ability is significant cause the need for a variety of positions in helping the students to maximize the use of technology in their learning time. One of the significant results of the study related to the development of my application is the emphasis on the needs of students who are always different depending on culture and personality, which mean each student needs different types of mentors who can support them in language learning. Despite the position of the teacher here is external support on the self-directed learning strategy with technology which is different with the design plan of my team where the tutors support is inside the system, with a large number of sample (418 undergraduate students), this paper can be used as reliable support for a based decision making in my App development.
 
Chang, H., & Windeatt, S. (2016). Developing collaborative learning practices in an online language course. Computer Assisted Language Learning, 29(8), 1271-1286.
 
On this article, authors research on the collaboration process between instructors and students on the online course from low to the mid-level of English level using theories of the situation by Dillenbourg, namely, interactions, mechanisms, and effects. By investigating the reason for the collaboration, collaboration development progress, and the result of the collaboration, this research suggests that effective collaboration is happening if 6 points of the criteria list are fulfilled on the course. However, some criteria need peers involvement that unavailable on my team project. Here I highlight four main criteria that can be implemented in my design decision. First is the learning course should allow the students to have control to decide the time and mechanism of their participation. Second, rather than judgmental, the instructor feedback should be supportive especially in the early stage of the learning period. Third, the form of the interaction between the instructor and students should be in a social form to encourage both to keep communicating with each other. Lastly, each student needs a different time to gain and strengthen their confidence and trust to the teachers that leads to the effectiveness of the training process. This paper is helpful to develop the knowledge of how the collaboration progressed over the program period between learners and the instructor for online course conditions. By pointing out the importance of social elements in online collaboration, it was telling that the motivation, time and confidence need to build among participants. For the research quality also entirely new (2016) with proper background research and citation on the reliable source. This article is the most helpful report that generates three different design direction of my app. From the CSCW point of view, the result of the research paper somehow has a similarity and different at the same time with the core dimensions of CSCW. In the research' result, students who learn through online courses must be able to determine the lessons they want to learn and participate based on their learning abilities or needs which is related to the first principle of CSCW that is articulation work. However, looking at the principle of awareness that requires both parties (teachers and students) to work together and able to monitor each other activities, this principle cannot be achieved in this research paper. This issue is due to the nature of collaborative learning that is being developed in this report is one-way interaction where only teachers can observe the learning activities of the learners. While on the other hand, students as individuals cannot access what is the instructor activity because this is undoubtedly the system works in one direction.
 
Wei, L. (2012). Construction of Seamless English Language Learning Cyberspace via Interactive Text Messaging Tool. Theory and Practice in Language Studies, 2(8), 1590-1596.
 
On this paper, authors describe the creation and operation process of developing instant messaging software (QQ Group) for an English language learning aid and then analyse the effects, problems and the future improvement plan of the system. It has been mentioned that the instant messaging software is a growing trend within students and become the most common tools to do online communication within peers. As a result, the authors discover there is an improvement in the English language skill within students who use the system especially in the primary area of knowledge such as thinking, speaking, writing, and reading ability. Furthermore, students found to be able to solve their study problems through collaboration and cooperation within students or instructor. Others student also influence to join the system because of the trends that spread by the member group of the instant messaging software. One big problem that mentions inside the report is the leak of the self-study ability of the students that make the learning process goes slow. However, the QQ Group system provide a learning direction and fun, educative game to maintain student participation inside the group. This research is significant in developing the system that the team and I try to build. We were initially hesitant in using texting as a learning method in the application. However, with all of the prove and benefit that gain inside the paper, I become convinced of the ability of this feature (texting) in the online learning media. Furthermore, the self-study problems still become the main problem of the online learning system. From CSCW perspective, the system that built by the authors is a system that applied the Different time and same place context where all users who are the join members of the QQ English Group able to interact any time but remain on one platform and one section of communication.
 

 
Li, Jia, Cummins, Jim, & Deng, Qizhen. (2017). The Effectiveness of Texting to Enhance Academic Vocabulary Learning: English Language Learners’ Perspective. Computer Assisted Language Learning, 30(8), 816-843.

This research tends to discover the students' perspective of the mobile-assisted language learning app capability to encourage English language learner’s motivation to learn the vocabulary. The authors mention that as a natural, easy and instant way of processing information, texting is the most compatible way to learn vocabulary.  Considering the texting format, content, and feature, authors digging the experiences and perspectives of texting from the students' view. The research suggests every English training program to take the availability and advantages of text messages for the innovative learning method, especially for vocabulary learning. Since this technology has been familiar to students, a sense of the novelty does not lead to the learning process feels. This paper is helpful to develop the learning path through text message. Following the three main points that mention in the paper such as developing the message that contains the learning needs of the students, make sure the learning implementation is achievable, and create reasonable learning outcomes. Moreover, the simplicity and clarity content, appropriate and consistent number of the message, appropriate of learning level, and the words choice are the primary consideration when creating an excellent texting-integrated curriculum. Overall, the implementation of texting in English learning strategy shows a positive impression in the eyes of the students. The use of media that was familiar for the learners as users is beneficial for them to socialize and learn at the same time. However, because the learning focus in this paper is to focus on vocabulary learning, more research is needed on other material learning.
				
			
		

